README.md, before:

# `snapback`

Restore EXIF metadata (dates, GPS coordinates) and caption overlays to
exported Snapchat memories.

Snapchat data exports strip EXIF metadata from your photos and videos and
provide it separately in a JSON file. Caption overlays are stored as separate
WebP images (misleadingly named `.png`). `snapback` reads the metadata JSON,
applies it back to your media via `exiftool`, composites caption overlays via
`ffmpeg`, and moves the processed files to a unified output directory.

## Quickstart

1. Request a data export from the [My Data](https://accounts.snapchat.com/v2/download-my-data)
   page in the Snapchat web application. When selecting export options, you must
   choose "Export your Memories" and "Export JSON Files" **at minimum**
   (`snapback` does not currently support exported chat media, but adding support
   for this shouldn't be super complicated; PRs welcome)
2. Once you receive an email notification that your export is ready, return to
   the "My Data" page above and download all of the `.zip` files.
3. Run the following commands:

```
mkdir ~/path/to/snapchat_export
cd ~/path/to/snapchat_export
mv ~/Downloads/mydata~*.zip .
# If you're tight on space you can try to find and extract the json directory
# first and then unzip the archives one at a time, running snapback after each
# unzip. By default, it will unzip all the archives in the current directory.
nix run github:carschandler/snapback -- --help
# Read the help menu and decide how many processes you want to run
# simultaneously & how to handle captions
nix run github:carschandler/snapback -- --processes 3
```

### Caption modes

Snapchat splits captions into their own images when exporting. Choose how to
handle these files using the `--caption` option:

- **ignore**: skip caption overlays entirely, only move the originals to `--output-dir`
- **copy**: create a `_captioned` copy and move both it and the original to `--output-dir`
- **overwrite**: apply the caption directly to the original file

### Processes

If you aren't sure how many processes your system can handle, don't push it too
far; you'll reach a point of diminishing returns. On an M3 Pro chip, I'm just
using 5 and my computer does get a bit toasty after a while. When in doubt, just
omit this argument and a single process will be used, then just leave it running
for a while.

## Prerequisites

*If using `nix`, all runtime dependencies are bundled automatically.* Otherwise,
ensure the following are installed:

- [exiftool](https://exiftool.org/)
- [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) (headless variant is fine)
- [unzip](https://infozip.sourceforge.net/)

While many versions of these tools may work, this package has only been tested
using `exiftool v13.39`, `ffmpeg v8.0.1`, `unzip v6.00`).

## Installation

### ❄️ Nix Flake (recommended)

Run directly without installing:

```sh
nix run github:carschandler/snapback -- --help
```

### 🦀 Cargo

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/carschandler/snapback
```

Ensure `exiftool`, `ffmpeg`, and `unzip` are on your `PATH` 

### From source

```sh
git clone https://github.com/carschandler/snapback
cd snapback
cargo run --release -- --help
```

## Usage

1. Download your data from Snapchat (Settings > My Data).
2. Place the `.zip` files in a directory.
3. Run snapback

This will unzip the archives, apply EXIF metadata, handle captions, and move
processed media to `./processed_media` by default.

### Options

| Flag | Description | Default |
|------|-------------|---------|
| `-m, --memories-history-json-path` | Path to `memories_history.json` | `./json/memories_history.json` |
| `-z, --zip-dir` | Directory containing `.zip` files to unpack | `.` |
| `-p, --processes` | Number of concurrent exiftool/ffmpeg processes | `1` |
| `-o, --output-dir` | Directory to move processed files into | `./processed_media` |
| `--media-prefix` | Glob prefix for media directories | `memories` |
| `-c, --captions` | Caption overlay mode: `ignore`, `copy`, `overwrite` | `copy` |

Commit message:

fix: rename captions -> overlays
It was misleading to only refer to the overlays as captions as they can
also have drawings, stickers, etc.

README.md, after:

# `snapback`

Restore EXIF metadata (dates, GPS coordinates) and overlays (captions,
drawings, stickers, etc.) to exported Snapchat memories.

Snapchat data exports strip EXIF metadata from your photos and videos and
provide it separately in a JSON file. Overlays are stored as separate WebP
images (misleadingly named `.png`). `snapback` reads the metadata JSON,
applies it back to your media via `exiftool`, composites overlays via
`ffmpeg`, and moves the processed files to a unified output directory.

## Quickstart

1. Request a data export from the [My Data](https://accounts.snapchat.com/v2/download-my-data)
   page in the Snapchat web application. When selecting export options, you must
   choose "Export your Memories" and "Export JSON Files" **at minimum**
   (`snapback` does not currently support exported chat media, but adding support
   for this shouldn't be super complicated; PRs welcome)
2. Once you receive an email notification that your export is ready, return to
   the "My Data" page above and download all of the `.zip` files.
3. Run the following commands:

```
mkdir ~/path/to/snapchat_export
cd ~/path/to/snapchat_export
mv ~/Downloads/mydata~*.zip .
# If you're tight on space you can try to find and extract the json directory
# first and then unzip the archives one at a time, running snapback after each
# unzip. By default, it will unzip all the archives in the current directory.
nix run github:carschandler/snapback -- --help
# Read the help menu and decide how many processes you want to run
# simultaneously & how to handle overlays
nix run github:carschandler/snapback -- --processes 3
```

### Overlay modes

Snapchat splits overlays (captions, drawings, stickers, etc.) into their own
images when exporting. Choose how to handle these files using the `--overlays`
option:

- **ignore**: skip overlays entirely, only move the originals to `--output-dir`
- **copy**: create an `_overlaid` copy and move both it and the original to `--output-dir`
- **overwrite**: apply the overlay directly to the original file

### Processes

If you aren't sure how many processes your system can handle, don't push it too
far; you'll reach a point of diminishing returns. On an M3 Pro chip, I'm just
using 5 and my computer does get a bit toasty after a while. When in doubt, just
omit this argument and a single process will be used, then just leave it running
for a while.

## Prerequisites

*If using `nix`, all runtime dependencies are bundled automatically.* Otherwise,
ensure the following are installed:

- [exiftool](https://exiftool.org/)
- [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) (headless variant is fine)
- [unzip](https://infozip.sourceforge.net/)

While many versions of these tools may work, this package has only been tested
using `exiftool v13.39`, `ffmpeg v8.0.1`, `unzip v6.00`).

## Installation

### ❄️ Nix Flake (recommended)

Run directly without installing:

```sh
nix run github:carschandler/snapback -- --help
```

### 🦀 Cargo

```sh
cargo install --git https://github.com/carschandler/snapback
```

Ensure `exiftool`, `ffmpeg`, and `unzip` are on your `PATH` 

### From source

```sh
git clone https://github.com/carschandler/snapback
cd snapback
cargo run --release -- --help
```

## Usage

1. Download your data from Snapchat (Settings > My Data).
2. Place the `.zip` files in a directory.
3. Run snapback

This will unzip the archives, apply EXIF metadata, handle overlays, and move
processed media to `./processed_media` by default.

### Options

| Flag | Description | Default |
|------|-------------|---------|
| `-m, --memories-history-json-path` | Path to `memories_history.json` | `./json/memories_history.json` |
| `-z, --zip-dir` | Directory containing `.zip` files to unpack | `.` |
| `-p, --processes` | Number of concurrent exiftool/ffmpeg processes | `1` |
| `-d, --output-dir` | Directory to move processed files into | `./processed_media` |
| `--media-prefix` | Glob prefix for media directories | `memories` |
| `-o, --overlays` | Overlay mode: `ignore`, `copy`, `overwrite` | `copy` |
